Now let's open the terminal and run BHP artisan thinker so we'll learn about some more methods of cash
manipulation so we can use cash for say here and the first method would be on how to store items.
So we already know about cash remember but there is also a simple method where you can just store some
data.
So the first argument is the key name so low the anything like Data.
Now the second argument would be what would you like to store.
This can be anything.
Now we can store some tax like hell from cash and the first argument would be the time for which you
would like to store this item in cash in minutes or if you will use the date time object or carbon object
then you can specify some detailed time.
Now if you will do it like that this cash item would be stored forever.
And what that means is it would be stored as long as the cash server is running or in case of files.
As long as the files exist there.
So they are not removed and to delete this item from the cache you will have to explicitly delete it
and to remove this item from cache you will have to explicitly delete it using the forget method.
But let's store it for five minutes now.
It returns normal.
But now let's see how we can check if certain item already exists in cache so we can use the Hess method
and we have to provide a key.
So that's the only argument.
Now you can see that it returns true if we will use has for something else like Data to.
It returns false because it wasn't stored in the cache before.
Now we can also retrieve data from the cache using cache get
so you can do cache get data and you see that we got the message Hello from cache
now.
If you will like to retrieve data to which we know is not inside the cache you will get no.
But alternatively you can do cache get data too and as a second argument provide a default value
so it's not like remember it won't store this value inside the cache it is just providing a default
if the item cannot be found inside the cash.
Now there are also additional methods and they might be very useful and they are called increment and
decrement.
So what that does is for a particular cache item let's say counter we can incremented an integer value
so for example I already had an element called counter and it has incremented it to 2.
Now if I'll find something that I didn't have in cash let's say free x you can see that it is 1.
So it assumes it starts with 0.
If nothing is in cache but then it can increment it also we can do cache decrement
and now it is zero.
So we've learned some basic methods of the cache for safe to manipulate our cash and now let's use it.
Use that as an example when on the blog post page will implement a Basic counter of how many people
are reading this blog post in current time.